
The intense interest aroused in the public by what was known at the time as 'The Styles Case' has now somewhat subsided. 
Nevertheless, in view of the world-wide notoriety which attended it, I have been asked, both by my friend and the family themselves, to write an account of the whole story. 
This, we trust, will silence the sensational rumours which still persist. 
I will therefore briefly set down the circumstances which led to my being connected with the affair. 
I had been invalided home from the Front; and, after spending some months in a rather depressing Convalescent Home, was given a month's sick leave. 
Having no near relations or friends, I was trying to make up my mind what to do, when I ran across John Cavendish. 
I had seen very little of him for some years. 
Indeed, I had never known him particularly well. 
He was a good fifteen years my senior, for one thing, though he hardly looked his years. 
As a boy, though, I had often stayed at Styles, his mother's place in 
We had a good yarn about old times, and it ended in his inviting me down to Styles to spend my leave there. 
The mater will be delighted to see you all those years, he added. 
Your mother keeps well? I asked. 
Oh, yes. 
I suppose you know that she has married again? 
I am afraid I showed my surprise rather plainly. 
Mrs. Cavendish, who had married John's father when he was a widower with two sons, had been a handsome woman of as I remembered her. 
She certainly could not be a day less than seventy now. 
I recalled her as an energetic, autocratic personality, somewhat inclined to charitable and social notoriety, with a fondness for opening bazaars and playing the Lady Bountiful. 
She was a most generous woman, and possessed a considerable fortune of her own. 
Their Styles Court, had been purchased by Mr. Cavendish early in their married life. 
He had been completely under his wife's ascendancy, so much so that, on dying, he left the place to her for her lifetime, as well as the larger part of his income; an arrangement that was distinctly unfair to his two sons. 
Their step-mother, however, had always been most generous to them; indeed, they were so young at the time of their father's remarriage that they always thought of her as their own mother. 
Lawrence, the younger, had been a delicate youth. 
He had qualified as a doctor but early relinquished the profession of medicine, and lived at home while pursuing literary ambitions; though his verses never had any marked success. 
John practiced for some time as a barrister, but had finally settled down to the more congenial life of a country squire. 
He had married two years ago, and had taken his wife to live at Styles, though I entertained a shrewd suspicion that he would have preferred his mother to increase his allowance, which would have enabled him to have a home of his own. 
Mrs. Cavendish, however, was a lady who liked to make her own plans, and expected other people to fall in with them, and in this case she certainly had the whip hand, namely: the purse strings. 
John noticed my surprise at the news of his mother's remarriage and smiled rather 
Rotten little bounder too! he said savagely. 
I can tell you, Hastings, it's making life jolly difficult for us. 
As for remember 
No. 
Oh, I suppose she was after your time. 
She's the factotum, companion, Jack of all trades! 
A great 
Not precisely young and beautiful, but as game as they make them. 
You were going to say......? 
Oh, this fellow! 
He turned up from nowhere, on the pretext of being a second cousin or something of though she didn't seem particularly keen to acknowledge the relationship. 
The fellow is an absolute outsider, anyone can see that. 
He's got a great black beard, and wears patent leather boots in all weathers! 
But the mater cottoned to him at once, took him on as know how she's always running a hundred societies? 
I nodded. 
Well, of course the war has turned the hundreds into thousands. 
No doubt the fellow was very useful to her. 
But you could have knocked us all down with a feather when, three months ago, she suddenly announced that she and Alfred were engaged! 
The fellow must be at least twenty years younger than she is! 
It's simply bare-faced fortune hunting; but there you is her own mistress, and she's married him. 
It must be a difficult situation for you all. 
Difficult! 
It's damnable! 
Thus it came about that, three days later, I descended from the train at Styles St. 
Mary, an absurd little station, with no apparent reason for existence, perched up in the midst of green fields and country lanes. 
John Cavendish was waiting on the platform, and piloted me out to the car. 
Got a drop or two of petrol still, you see, he remarked. 
Mainly owing to the activities. 
The village of Styles St. 
Mary was situated about two miles from the little station, and Styles Court lay a mile the other side of it. 
It was a still, warm day in early July. 
As one looked out over the flat country, lying so green and peaceful under the afternoon sun, it seemed almost impossible to believe that, not so very far away, a great war was running its appointed course. 
I felt I had suddenly strayed into another world. 
As we turned in at the lodge gates, John said: I'm afraid find it very quiet down here, Hastings. 
My dear fellow, that's just what I want. 
Oh, it's pleasant enough if you want to lead the idle life. 
I drill with the volunteers twice a week, and lend a hand at the farms. 
My wife works regularly 'on the land'. 
She is up at five every morning to milk, and keeps at it steadily until lunchtime. 
It's a jolly good life taking it all it weren't for that fellow Alfred 
He checked the car suddenly, and glanced at his watch. 
I wonder if we've time to pick up Cynthia. 
No, she'll have started from the hospital by now. 
Cynthia! 
That's not your wife? 
No, Cynthia is a protegee of my mother's, the daughter of an old of hers, who married a rascally solicitor. 
He came a cropper, and the girl was left an orphan and penniless. 
My mother came to the rescue, and Cynthia has been with us nearly two years now. 
She works in the Red Cross Hospital at seven miles away. 
As he spoke the last words, we drew up in front of the fine old house. 
A lady in a stout tweed skirt, who was bending over a flower bed, straightened herself at our approach. 
Hullo, here's our wounded hero! 
Mr. 
Miss shook hands with a hearty, almost painful, grip. 
I had an impression of very blue eyes in a sunburnt face. 
She was a woman of about forty, with a deep voice, almost manly in its tones, and had a large sensible square body, with feet to last encased in good thick boots. 
Her conversation, I soon found, was couched in the telegraphic style. 
Weeds grow like house afire. 
Can't keep even with 'em. 
Shall press you in. 
Better be careful. 
I'm sure I shall be only too delighted to make myself useful, I responded. 
Don't say it. 
Never does. 
Wish you hadn't later. 
You're a cynic, said John, laughing. 
Where's tea or out? 
Out. 
Too fine a day to be cooped up in the house. 
Come on then, you've done enough gardening for today. 
'The labourer is worthy of his hire', you know. 
Come and be refreshed. 
Well, said Miss drawing off her gardening gloves, I'm inclined to agree with you. 
She led the way round the house to where tea was spread under the shade of a large sycamore. 
A figure rose from one of the basket chairs, and came a few steps to meet us. 
My wife, Hastings, said John. 
I shall never forget my first sight of Mary Cavendish. 
Her tall, slender form, outlined against the bright light; the vivid sense of slumbering fire that seemed to find expression only in those wonderful tawny eyes of hers, remarkable eyes, different from any other woman's that I have ever known; the intense power of stillness she possessed, which nevertheless conveyed the impression of a wild untamed spirit in an exquisitely civilised these things are burnt into my memory. 
I shall never forget them. 
She greeted me with a few words of pleasant welcome in a low clear voice, and I sank into a basket chair feeling distinctly glad that I had accepted John's invitation. 
Mrs. Cavendish gave me some tea, and her few quiet remarks heightened my first impression of her as a thoroughly fascinating woman. 
An appreciative listener is always stimulating, and I described, in a humorous manner, certain incidents of my Convalescent Home, in a way which, I flatter myself, greatly amused my hostess. 
John, of course, good fellow though he is, could hardly be called a brilliant conversationalist. 
At that moment a well remembered voice floated through the open French window near at hand: Then write to the Princess after tea, Alfred? 
I'll write to Lady for the second day, myself. 
Or shall we wait until we hear from the Princess? 
In case of a refusal, Lady might open it the first day, and Mrs. the second. 
Then there's the the school fete. 
There was the murmur of a man's voice, and then Mrs. rose in reply: Yes, certainly. 
After tea will do quite well. 
You are so thoughtful, Alfred dear. 
The French window swung open a little wider, and a handsome old lady, with a somewhat masterful cast of features, stepped out of it on to the lawn. 
A man followed her, a suggestion of deference in his manner. 
Mrs. greeted me with effusion. 
Why, if it isn't too delightful to see you again, Mr. Hastings, after all these years. 
Alfred, darling, Mr. husband. 
I looked with some curiosity at 'Alfred darling'. 
He certainly struck a rather alien note. 
I did not wonder at John objecting to his beard. 
It was one of the longest and blackest I have ever seen. 
He wore and had a curious of feature. 
It struck me that he might look natural on a stage, but was strangely out of place in real life. 
His voice was rather deep and unctuous. 
He placed a wooden hand in mine and said: This is a pleasure, Mr. Hastings. 
Then, turning to his wife: Emily dearest, I think that cushion is a little damp. 
She beamed fondly on him, as he substituted another with every demonstration of the tenderest care. 
Strange infatuation of an otherwise sensible woman! 
With the presence of Mr. a sense of constraint and veiled hostility seemed to settle down upon the company. 
Miss in particular, took no pains to conceal her feelings. 
Mrs. however, seemed to notice nothing unusual. 
Her volubility, which I remembered of old, had lost nothing in the intervening years, and she poured out a steady flood of conversation, mainly on the subject of the forthcoming bazaar which she was organizing and which was to take place shortly. 
Occasionally she referred to her husband over a question of days or dates. 
His watchful and attentive manner never varied. 
From the very first I took a firm and rooted dislike to him, and I flatter myself that my first judgments are usually fairly shrewd. 
Presently Mrs. turned to give some instructions about letters to and her husband addressed me in his painstaking voice: Is soldiering your regular profession, Mr. Hastings? 
No, before the war I was in 
And you will return there after it is over? 
Perhaps. 
Either that or a fresh start altogether. 
Mary Cavendish leant forward. 
What would you really choose as a profession, if you could just consult your inclination? 
Well, that depends. 
No secret hobby? she asked. 
Tell drawn to something? 
Every one something absurd. 
laugh at me. 
She smiled. 
Perhaps. 
Well, I've always had a secret hankering to be a detective! 
The real Yard? 
Or Sherlock Holmes? 
Oh, Sherlock Holmes by all means. 
But really, seriously, I am awfully drawn to it. 
I came across a man in Belgium once, a very famous detective, and he quite inflamed me. 
He was a marvellous little fellow. 
He used to say that all good detective work was a mere matter of method. 
My system is based on of course I have progressed rather further. 
He was a funny little man, a great dandy, but wonderfully clever. 
Like a good detective story myself, remarked Miss 
Lots of nonsense written, though. 
Criminal discovered in last chapter. 
Every one dumbfounded. 
Real know at once. 
There have been a great number of undiscovered crimes, I argued. 
Don't mean the police, but the people that are right in it. 
The family. 
You couldn't really hoodwink them. 
They'd know. 
Then, I said, much amused, you think that if you were mixed up in a crime, say a murder, you'd be able to spot the murderer right off? 
Of course I should. 
be able to prove it to a pack of lawyers. 
But I'm certain I'd know. 
I'd feel it in my fingertips if he came near me. 
It might be a 'she,' I suggested. 
Might. 
But murder's a violent crime. 
Associate it more with a man. 
Not in a case of poisoning. 
Mrs. clear voice startled me. 
Dr. was saying yesterday that, owing to the general ignorance of the more uncommon poisons among the medical profession, there were probably countless cases of poisoning quite unsuspected. 
Why, Mary, what a gruesome conversation! cried Mrs. 
It makes me feel as if a goose were walking over my grave. 
Oh, there's Cynthia! 
A young girl in V. 
A. 
D. 
uniform ran lightly across the lawn. 
Why, Cynthia, you are late today. 
This is Mr. 
Cynthia was a young creature, full of life and vigour. 
She tossed off her little V. 
A. 
D. 
cap, and I admired the great loose waves of her auburn hair, and the smallness and whiteness of the hand she held out to claim her tea. 
With dark eyes and eyelashes she would have been a beauty. 
She flung herself down on the ground beside John, and as I handed her a plate of sandwiches she smiled up at me. 
Sit down here on the grass, do. 
It's ever so much nicer. 
I dropped down obediently. 
You work at don't you, Miss 
She nodded. 
For my sins. 
Do they bully you, then? I asked, smiling. 
I should like to see them! cried Cynthia with dignity. 
I have got a cousin who is nursing, I remarked. 
And she is terrified of 'Sisters'. 
I don't wonder. 
Sisters are, you know, Mr. Hastings. 
They simply are! 
You've no idea! 
But I'm not a nurse, thank heaven, I work in the dispensary. 
How many people do you poison? I asked, smiling. 
Cynthia smiled too. 
Oh, hundreds! she said. 
Cynthia, called Mrs. do you think you could write a few notes for me? 
Certainly, Aunt Emily. 
She jumped up promptly, and something in her manner reminded me that her position was a dependent one, and that Mrs. kind as she might be in the main, did not allow her to forget it. 
My hostess turned to me. 
John will show you your room. 
Supper is at seven. 
We have given up late dinner for some time now. 
Lady our Member's was the late Lord the same. 
She agrees with me that one must set an example of economy. 
We are quite a war household; nothing is wasted scrap of waste paper, even, is saved and sent away in sacks. 
I expressed my appreciation, and John took me into the house and up the broad staircase, which forked right and left half-way to different wings of the building. 
My room was in the left wing, and looked out over the park. 
John left me, and a few minutes later I saw him from my window walking slowly across the grass arm in arm with Cynthia 
I heard Mrs. call Cynthia impatiently, and the girl started and ran back to the house. 
At the same moment, a man stepped out from the shadow of a tree and walked slowly in the same direction. 
He looked about forty, very dark with a melancholy face. 
Some violent emotion seemed to be mastering him. 
He looked up at my window as he passed, and I recognized him, though he had changed much in the fifteen years that had elapsed since we last met. 
It was John's younger brother, Lawrence Cavendish. 
I wondered what it was that had brought that singular expression to his face. 
Then I dismissed him from my mind, and returned to the contemplation of my own affairs. 
The evening passed pleasantly enough; and I dreamed that night of that enigmatical woman, Mary Cavendish. 
The next morning dawned bright and sunny, and I was full of the anticipation of a delightful visit. 
I did not see Mrs. Cavendish until lunch-time, when she volunteered to take me for a walk, and we spent a charming afternoon roaming in the woods, returning to the house about five. 
As we entered the large hall, John beckoned us both into the 
I saw at once by his face that something disturbing had occurred. 
We followed him in, and he shut the door after us. 
Look here, Mary, there's the deuce of a mess. 
had a row with Alfred and she's off. 
Off? 
John nodded 
Yes; you see she went to the mater, herself. 
Miss entered. 
Her lips were set grimly together, and she carried a small suit-case. 
She looked excited and determined, and slightly on the defensive. 
At any rate, she burst out, I've spoken my mind! 
My dear cried Mrs. Cavendish, this can't be true! 
Miss nodded grimly. 
True enough! 
Afraid I said some things to Emily she won't forget or forgive in a hurry. 
Don't mind if they've only sunk in a bit. 
Probably water off a duck's back, though. 
I said right out: 'You're an old woman, Emily, and there's no fool like an old fool. 
The man's twenty years younger than you, and don't you fool yourself as to what he married you for. 
Money! 
Well, don't let him have too much of it. 
Farmer has got a very pretty young wife. 
Just ask your Alfred how much time he spends over there.' 
She was very angry. 
Natural! 
I went on, 'I'm going to warn you, whether you like it or not. 
That man would as soon murder you in your bed as look at you. 
He's a bad lot. 
You can say what you like to me, but remember what I've told you. 
He's a bad lot!' 
What did she 
say? Miss made an extremely expressive 
grimace. 
'Darling ...'wicked accuse her 'dear 
husband'! The sooner I left her house the 
better. So I'm 
off. But not 
now? This 
minute! For a moment we sat and stared at 
her. Finally John Cavendish, finding his persuasions of no avail, went off to look up the 
trains. His wife followed him, murmuring something about persuading Mrs. to think better of 
it. As she left the room, Miss face 
changed. She leant towards me 
eagerly. Mr. Hastings, you're 
honest. I can trust 
you? I was a little 
startled. She laid her hand on my arm, and sank her voice to a 
whisper. Look after her, Mr. 
Hastings. My poor 
Emily. They're a lot of 
them. Oh, I know what I'm talking 
about. There isn't one of them that's not hard up and trying to get money out of 
her. I've protected her as much as I 
could. Now I'm out of the way, they'll impose upon 
her. Of course, Miss I said, I'll do everything I can, but I'm sure you're excited and 
overwrought. She interrupted me by slowly shaking her 
forefinger. Young man, trust 
me. I've lived in the world rather longer than you 
have. All I ask you is to keep your eyes 
open. see what I 
mean. The throb of the motor came through the open window, and Miss rose and moved to the 
door. John's voice sounded 
outside. With her hand on the handle, she turned her head over her shoulder, and beckoned to 
me. Above all, Mr. Hastings, watch that 
husband! There was no time for 
more. Miss was swallowed up in an eager chorus of protests and 
good-byes. The did not 
appear. As the motor drove away, Mrs. Cavendish suddenly detached herself from the group, and moved across the drive to the lawn to meet a tall bearded man who had been evidently making for the 
house. The colour rose in her cheeks as she held out her hand to 
him. Who is that? I asked sharply, for instinctively I distrusted the 
man. That's Dr. said John 
shortly. And who is Dr. 
He's staying in the village doing a rest cure, after a bad nervous 
breakdown. He's a London specialist; a very clever of the greatest living experts on poisons, I 
believe. And he's a great friend of Mary's, put in Cynthia, the 
irrepressible. John Cavendish frowned and changed the 
subject. Come for a stroll, 
Hastings. This has been a most rotten 
business. She always had a rough tongue, but there is no friend in England than 
He took the path through the plantation, and we walked down to the village through the woods which bordered one side of the 
estate. As we passed through one of the gates on our way home again, a pretty young woman of gipsy type coming in the opposite direction bowed and 
smiled. That's a pretty girl, I remarked 
appreciatively. John's face 
hardened. That is Mrs. 
The one that Miss 
Exactly, said John, with rather unnecessary 
abruptness. I thought of the old lady in the big house, and that vivid wicked little face that had just smiled into ours, and a vague chill of foreboding crept over 
me. I brushed it 
aside. Styles is really a glorious old place, I said to 
John. He nodded rather 
Yes, it's a fine 
property. It'll be mine some be mine now by rights, if my father had only made a decent 
will. And then I shouldn't be so damned hard up as I am 
now. Hard up, are 
you? My dear Hastings, I don't mind telling you that I'm at my wit's end for 
money. Couldn't your brother help 
you? 
Lawrence? He's gone through every penny he ever had, publishing rotten verses in fancy 
bindings. No, we're an impecunious 
lot. My mother's always been awfully good to us, I must 
say. That is, up to 
now. Since her marriage, of course...... he broke off, 
frowning. For the first time I felt that, with something indefinable had gone from the 
atmosphere. Her presence had spelt 
security. Now that security was the air seemed rife with 
suspicion. The sinister face of Dr. to me 
unpleasantly. A vague suspicion of every one and everything filled my 
mind. Just for a moment I had a premonition of approaching 
evil. I had arrived at Styles on the of 
July. I come now to the events of the and of that 
month. For the convenience of the reader I will recapitulate the incidents of those days in as exact a manner as 
possible. They were elicited subsequently at the trial by a process of long and tedious 
I received a letter from a couple of days after her departure, telling me she was working as a nurse at the big hospital in a manufacturing town some fifteen miles away, and begging me to let her know if Mrs. should show any wish to be 
reconciled. The only fly in the ointment of my peaceful days was Mrs. extraordinary, and, for my part, unaccountable preference for the society of Dr. 
What she saw in the man I cannot imagine, but she was always asking him up to the house, and often went off for long expeditions with 
him. I must confess that I was quite unable to see his 
attraction. The of July fell on a 
Monday. It was a day of 
turmoil. The famous bazaar had taken place on Saturday, and an entertainment, in connection with the same charity, at which Mrs. was to recite a War poem, was to be held that 
night. We were all busy during the morning arranging and decorating the Hall in the village where it was to take 
place. We had a late luncheon and spent the afternoon resting in the 
garden. I noticed that John's manner was somewhat 
unusual. He seemed very excited and 
restless. After tea, Mrs. went to lie down to rest before her efforts in the evening and I challenged Mary Cavendish to a single at 
tennis. About a quarter to seven, Mrs. called us that we should be late as supper was early that 
night. We had rather a scramble to get ready in time; and before the meal was over the motor was waiting at the 
door. The entertainment was a great success, Mrs. recitation receiving tremendous 
applause. There were also some tableaux in which Cynthia took 
part. She did not return with us, having been asked to a supper party, and to remain the night with some friends who had been acting with her in the 
tableaux. The following morning, Mrs. stayed in bed to breakfast, as she was rather overtired; but she appeared in her mood about 
and swept Lawrence and myself off to a luncheon 
party. Such a charming invitation from Mrs. 
Lady sister, you 
know. The came over with the of our oldest 
families. Mary had excused herself on the plea of an engagement with Dr. 
We had a pleasant luncheon, and as we drove away Lawrence suggested that we should return by which was barely a mile out of our way, and pay a visit to Cynthia in her 
dispensary. Mrs. replied that this was an excellent idea, but as she had several letters to write she would drop us there, and we could come back with Cynthia in the 
We were detained under suspicion by the hospital porter, until Cynthia appeared to vouch for us, looking very cool and sweet in her long white 
overall. She took us up to her sanctum, and introduced us to her fellow dispenser, a rather individual, whom Cynthia cheerily addressed as 
'Nibs'. What a lot of 
bottles! I exclaimed, as my eye travelled round the small 
room. Do you really know what's in them 
all? Say something original, groaned 
Cynthia. Every single person who comes up here says 
that. We are really thinking of bestowing a prize on the first individual who does not say: 'What a lot of 
bottles!' And I know the next thing you're going to say is: 'How many people have you 
poisoned?' I pleaded guilty with a 
laugh. If you people only knew how fatally easy it is to poison some one by mistake, you wouldn't joke about 
it. Come on, let's have 
tea. We've got all sorts of secret stories in that 
cupboard. No, the poison 
cupboard. The big 
right. We had a very cheery tea, and assisted Cynthia to wash up 
afterwards. We had just put away the last tea-spoon when a knock came at the 
door. The of Cynthia and Nibs were suddenly petrified into a stern and forbidding 
expression. Come in, said Cynthia, in a sharp professional 
tone. A young and rather scared looking nurse appeared with a bottle which she proffered to Nibs, who waved her towards Cynthia with the somewhat enigmatical remark: I'm not really here 
today. Cynthia took the bottle and examined it with the severity of a 
judge. This should have been sent up this 
morning. Sister is very 
sorry. She 
forgot. Sister should read the rules outside the 
door. I gathered from the little nurse's expression that there was not the least likelihood of her having the to retail this message to the dreaded 
'Sister'. So now it can't be done until tomorrow, finished 
Cynthia. Don't you think you could possibly let us have it 
tonight? Well, said Cynthia graciously, we are very busy, but if we have time it shall be 
done. The little nurse withdrew, and Cynthia promptly took a jar from the shelf, refilled the bottle, and placed it on the table outside the 
door. I 
laughed. Discipline must be 
maintained? 
Exactly. Come out on our little 
balcony. You can see all the outside wards 
there. I followed Cynthia and her friend and they pointed out the different wards to 
me. Lawrence remained behind, but after a few moments Cynthia called to him over her shoulder to come and join 
us. Then she looked at her 
watch. Nothing more to do, 
Nibs? 
No. All 
right. Then we can lock up and 
go. I had seen Lawrence in quite a different light that 
afternoon. Compared to John, he was an astoundingly difficult person to get to 
know. He was the opposite of his brother in almost every respect, being unusually shy and 
reserved. Yet he had a certain charm of manner, and I fancied that, if one really knew him well, one could have a deep affection for 
him. I had always fancied that his manner to Cynthia was rather constrained, and that she on her side was inclined to be shy of 
him. But they were both gay enough this afternoon, and chatted together like a couple of 
children. As we drove through the village, I remembered that I wanted some stamps, so accordingly we pulled up at the post 
office. As I came out again, I into a little man who was just 
entering. I drew aside and apologised, when suddenly, with a loud exclamation, he clasped me in his arms and kissed me 
warmly. Mon ami Hastings! he 
cried. It is indeed mon ami 
Hastings! 
I 
exclaimed. I turned to the 
This is a very pleasant meeting for me, Miss 
Cynthia. This is my old friend, Monsieur whom I have not seen for 
years. Oh, we know Monsieur said Cynthia 
gaily. But I had no idea he was a friend of 
yours. Yes, indeed, said 
seriously. I know Mademoiselle 
Cynthia. It is by the charity of that good Mrs. that I am 
here. Then, as I looked at him Yes, my friend, she had kindly extended hospitality to seven of my who, alas, are refugees from their native 
land. We Belgians will always remember her with 
gratitude. was an extraordinary looking little 
man. He was hardly more than five feet, four inches, but carried himself with great 
dignity. His head was exactly the shape of an egg, and he always perched it a little on one 
side. His moustache was very stiff and 
military. The neatness of his attire was almost 
incredible. I believe a speck of dust would have caused him more pain than a bullet 
wound. Yet this quaint little man who, I was sorry to see, now limped badly, had been in his time one of the most celebrated members of the Belgian 
police. As a detective, his flair had been extraordinary, and he had achieved triumphs by unravelling some of the most baffling cases of the 
day. He pointed out to me the little house inhabited by him and his fellow Belgians, and I promised to go and see him at an early 
date. Then he raised his hat with a flourish to Cynthia, and we drove 
away. He's a dear little man, said 
Cynthia. I'd no idea you knew 
him. You've been entertaining a celebrity unawares, I 
replied. And, for the rest of the way home, I recited to them the various exploits and triumphs of 
We arrived back in a very cheerful 
mood. As we entered the hall, Mrs. came out of her 
boudoir. She looked flushed and 
upset. Oh, it's you, she 
said. Is there anything the matter, Aunt Emily? asked 
Cynthia. Certainly not, said Mrs. 
sharply. What should there 
be? Then catching sight of Dorcas, the going into the she called to her to bring some stamps into the 
boudoir. Yes, 
m'm. The old servant hesitated, then added Don't you think, m'm, you'd better get to 
bed? You're looking very 
tired. Perhaps you're right, 
now. I've some letters I must finish by 
Have you lighted the fire in my room as I told 
you? Yes, 
m'm. Then I'll go to bed directly after 
supper. She went into the boudoir again, and Cynthia stared after 
her. Goodness 
gracious! I wonder what's up? she said to 
Lawrence. He did not seem to have heard her, for without a word he turned on his heel and went out of the 
house. I suggested a quick game of tennis before supper and, Cynthia agreeing, I ran upstairs to fetch my 
racquet. Mrs. Cavendish was coming down the 
stairs. It may have been my fancy, but she, too, was looking odd and 
disturbed. Had a good walk with Dr. I asked, trying to appear as indifferent as I 
could. I didn't go, she replied 
abruptly. Where is Mrs. 
In the 
boudoir. Her hand clenched itself on the banisters, then she seemed to nerve herself for some encounter, and went rapidly past me down the stairs across the hall to the boudoir, the door of which she shut behind 
her. As I ran out to the tennis court a few moments later, I had to pass the open boudoir window, and was unable to help overhearing the following scrap of 
dialogue. Mary Cavendish was saying in the voice of a woman desperately controlling herself: Then you won't show it to 
me? To which Mrs. replied: My dear Mary, it has nothing to do with that 
matter. Then show it to 
me. I tell you it is not what you 
imagine. It does not concern you in the 
least. To which Mary Cavendish replied, with a rising bitterness: Of course, I might have known you would shield 
him. Cynthia was waiting for me, and greeted me eagerly with: I 
say! There's been the most awful 
row! I've got it all out of 
Dorcas. What kind of a 
row? Between Aunt Emily and 
him. I do hope she's found him out at 
last! Was Dorcas there, 
then? Of course 
not. She 'happened to be near the 
door'. It was a real old 
I do wish I knew what it was all 
about. I thought of Mrs. gipsy face, and warnings, but wisely decided to hold my peace, whilst Cynthia exhausted every possible hypothesis, and cheerfully hoped, Aunt Emily will send him away, and will never speak to him 
again. I was anxious to get hold of John, but he was nowhere to be 
seen. Evidently something very momentous had occurred that 
afternoon. I tried to forget the few words I had overheard; but, do what I would, I could not dismiss them altogether from my 
mind. What was Mary concern in the 
matter? Mr. was in the when I came down to 
supper. His face was impassive as ever, and the strange unreality of the man struck me 
afresh. Mrs. came down 
last. She still looked agitated, and during the meal there was a somewhat constrained 
silence. was unusually 
quiet. As a rule, he surrounded his wife with little attentions, placing a cushion at her back, and altogether playing the part of the devoted 
husband. Immediately after supper, Mrs. retired to her boudoir 
again. Send my coffee in here, Mary, she 
called. I've just five minutes to catch the 
post. Cynthia and I went and sat by the open window in the 
Mary Cavendish brought our coffee to 
us. She seemed 
excited. Do you young people want lights, or do you enjoy the twilight? she 
asked. Will you take Mrs. her coffee, 
Cynthia? I will pour it 
out. Do not trouble, Mary, said 
I will take it to 
Emily. He poured it out, and went out of the room carrying it 
carefully. Lawrence followed him, and Mrs. Cavendish sat down by 
us. We three sat for some time in 
silence. It was a glorious night, hot and 
still. Mrs. Cavendish fanned herself gently with a palm 
leaf. It's almost too hot, she 
murmured. We shall have a 
thunderstorm. Alas, that these harmonious moments can never 
endure! My paradise was rudely shattered by the sound of a well known, and heartily disliked, voice in the 
hall. Dr. 
exclaimed 
Cynthia. What a funny time to 
come. I glanced jealously at Mary Cavendish, but she seemed quite undisturbed, the delicate pallor of her cheeks did not 
vary. In a few moments, Alfred had ushered the doctor in, the latter laughing, and protesting that he was in no fit state for a 
In truth, he presented a sorry spectacle, being literally plastered with 
mud. What have you been doing, doctor? cried Mrs. 
Cavendish. I must make my apologies, said the 
doctor. I did not really mean to come in, but Mr. 
insisted. Well, you are in a plight, said John, strolling in from the 
hall. Have some coffee, and tell us what you have been up 
to. Thank you, I 
will. He laughed rather as he described how he had discovered a very rare species of fern in an inaccessible place, and in his efforts to obtain it had lost his footing, and slipped ignominiously into a neighbouring 
pond. The sun soon dried me off, he added, but I'm afraid my appearance is very 
disreputable. At this juncture, Mrs. called to Cynthia from the hall, and the girl ran 
out. Just carry up my will you, 
dear? I'm going to 
bed. The door into the hall was a wide 
one. I had risen when Cynthia did, John was close by 
me. There were therefore three witnesses who could swear that Mrs. was carrying her coffee, as yet in her 
hand. My evening was utterly and entirely spoilt by the presence of Dr. 
It seemed to me the man would never 
go. He rose at last, however, and I breathed a sigh of 
relief. I'll walk down to the village with you, said Mr. 
I must see our agent over those estate 
accounts. He turned to 
John. No one need sit 
up. I will take the 
latch-key. To make this part of my story clear, I the following plan of the first floor of 
Styles. The servants' rooms are reached through the door 
B. They have no communication with the right wing, where the rooms were 
situated. It seemed to be the middle of the night when I was awakened by Lawrence 
Cavendish. He had a candle in his hand, and the agitation of his face told me at once that something was seriously 
wrong. What's the matter? I asked, sitting up in bed, and trying to collect my scattered 
thoughts. We are afraid my mother is very 
ill. She seems to be having some kind of 
fit. Unfortunately she has locked herself 
in. I'll come at 
once. I sprang out of bed; and, pulling on a followed Lawrence along the passage and the gallery to the right wing of the 
house. John Cavendish joined us, and one or two of the servants were standing round in a state of 
excitement. Lawrence turned to his 
brother. What do you think we had better 
do? Never, I thought, had his indecision of character been more 
apparent. John rattled the handle of Mrs. door violently, but with no 
effect. It was obviously locked or bolted on the 
inside. The whole household was aroused by 
now. The most alarming sounds were audible from the interior of the 
room. Clearly something must be 
done. Try going through Mr. room, sir, cried 
Dorcas. Oh, the poor 
mistress! Suddenly I realized that Alfred was not with he alone had given no sign of his 
presence. John opened the door of his 
room. It was pitch dark, but Lawrence was following with the candle, and by its feeble light we saw that the bed had not been slept in, and that there was no sign of the room having been 
occupied. We went straight to the connecting 
door. That, too, was locked or bolted on the 
inside. What was to be 
done? Oh, dear, sir, cried Dorcas, wringing her hands, what ever shall we 
do? We must try and break the door in, I 
suppose. It'll be a tough job, 
though. Here, let one of the maids go down and wake and tell him to go for Dr. at 
once. Now then, we'll have a try at the 
door. Half a moment, though, isn't there a door into Miss 
rooms? Yes, sir, but that's always 
bolted. It's never been 
undone. Well, we might just 
see. He ran rapidly down the corridor to 
room. Mary Cavendish was there, shaking the girl, who must have been an unusually sound sleeper, and trying to wake 
her. In a moment or two he was 
back. No 
good. That's bolted 
too. We must break in the 
door. I think this one is a shade less solid than the one in the 
passage. We strained and heaved 
together. The framework of the door was solid, and for a long time it resisted our efforts, but at last we felt it give beneath our weight, and finally, with a resounding crash, it was burst 
open. We stumbled in together, Lawrence still holding his 
candle. Mrs. was lying on the bed, her whole form agitated by violent convulsions, in one of which she must have overturned the table beside 
her. As we entered, however, her limbs relaxed, and she fell back upon the 
pillows. John strode across the room, and lit the 
gas. Turning to Annie, one of the housemaids, he sent her downstairs to the for 
brandy. Then he went across to his mother whilst I the door that gave on the 
corridor. I turned to Lawrence, to suggest that I had better leave them now that there was no further need of my services, but the words were frozen on my 
lips. Never have I seen such a ghastly look on any man's 
face. He was white as chalk, the candle he held in his shaking hand was sputtering onto the carpet, and his eyes, petrified with terror, or some such kindred emotion, stared over my head at a point on the further 
wall. It was as though he had seen something that turned him to 
stone. I instinctively followed the direction of his eyes, but I could see nothing 
unusual. The still feebly flickering ashes in the grate, and the row of prim ornaments on the mantelpiece, were surely harmless 
enough. The violence of Mrs. attack seemed to be 
passing. She was able to speak in short 
gasps. Better of lock myself 
in. A shadow fell on the bed and, looking up, I saw Mary Cavendish standing near the door with her arm around 
Cynthia. She seemed to be supporting the girl, who looked utterly dazed and unlike 
herself. Her face was heavily flushed, and she yawned 
repeatedly. Poor Cynthia is quite frightened, said Mrs. Cavendish in a low clear 
voice. She herself, I noticed, was dressed in her white land 
smock. Then it must be later than I 
thought. I saw that a faint streak of daylight was showing through the curtains of the windows, and that the clock on the mantelpiece pointed to close upon five 
o'clock. A strangled cry from the bed startled 
me. A fresh access of pain seized the unfortunate old 
lady. The convulsions were of a violence terrible to 
behold. Everything was 
confusion. We round her, powerless to help or 
alleviate. A final convulsion lifted her from the bed, until she appeared to rest upon her head and her heels, with her body arched in an extraordinary 
manner. In vain Mary and John tried to administer more 
brandy. The moments 
flew. Again the body arched itself in that peculiar 
fashion. At that moment, Dr. pushed his way authoritatively into the 
room. For one instant he stopped dead, staring at the figure on the bed, and, at the same instant, Mrs. cried out in a strangled voice, her eyes fixed on the doctor: Then she fell back motionless on the 
pillows. With a stride, the doctor reached the bed, and seizing her arms worked them energetically, applying what I knew to be artificial 
respiration. He issued a few short sharp orders to the 
servants. An imperious wave of his hand drove us all to the 
door. We watched him, fascinated, though I think we all knew in our hearts that it was too late, and that nothing could be done 
now. I could see by the expression on his face that he himself had little 
hope. Finally he abandoned his task, shaking his head 
gravely. At that moment, we heard footsteps outside, and Dr. Mrs. own doctor, a portly, fussy little man, came bustling 
in. In a few words explained how he had happened to be passing the lodge gates as the car came out, and had run up to the house as fast as he could, whilst the car went on to fetch Dr. 
With a faint gesture of the hand, he indicated the figure on the 
bed. Very 
sad. Very sad, murmured Dr. 
Poor dear 
lady. Always did far too too my 
advice. I warned 
her. Her heart was far from 
strong. 'Take it easy,' I said to her, 
But zeal for good works was too 
great. Nature 
rebelled. 
Dr. I noticed, was watching the local doctor 
narrowly. He still kept his eyes fixed on him as he 
spoke. The convulsions were of a peculiar violence, Dr. 
I am sorry you were not here in time to witness 
them. They were in 
character. Ah! said Dr. 
wisely. I should like to speak to you in private, said Dr. 
He turned to 
John. You do not 
object? Certainly 
not. We all trooped out into the corridor, leaving the two doctors alone, and I heard the key turned in the lock behind 
us. We went slowly down the 
stairs. I was violently 
excited. I have a certain talent for deduction, and Dr. manner had started a flock of wild surmises in my 
mind. Mary Cavendish laid her hand upon my 
arm. What is 
it? Why did Dr. seem 
I looked at 
her. Do you know what I 
think? 
What? 
Listen! I looked round, the others were out of 
earshot. I lowered my voice to a 
whisper. I believe she has been 
poisoned! I'm certain Dr. suspects 
it. 
What? She shrank against the wall, the pupils of her eyes dilating 
wildly. Then, with a sudden cry that startled me, she cried out: No, 
that! And breaking from me, fled up the 
stairs. I followed her, afraid that she was going to 
faint. I found her leaning against the bannisters, deadly 
pale. She waved me away 
impatiently. No, 
me. I'd rather be 
alone. Let me just be quiet for a minute or 
two. Go down to the 
others. I obeyed her 
reluctantly. John and Lawrence were in the 
I joined 
them. We were all silent, but I suppose I voiced the thoughts of us all when I at last broke it by saying: Where is Mr. 
John shook his 
head. He's not in the 
house. Our eyes 
met. Where was Alfred 
His absence was strange and 
inexplicable. I remembered Mrs. dying 
words. What lay beneath 
them? What more could she have told us, if she had had 
time? At last we heard the doctors descending the 
stairs. Dr. was looking important and excited, and trying to conceal an inward exultation under a manner of decorous 
calm. Dr. remained in the background, his grave bearded face 
unchanged. Dr. was the spokesman for the 
two. He addressed himself to John: Mr. Cavendish, I should like your consent to a 
postmortem. Is that necessary? asked John 
gravely. A spasm of pain crossed his 
face. Absolutely, said Dr. 
You mean by 
that......?
